So I wanna talk about several things
that are less than optimal, we'll say.
And again,
I wanna start with the LOOKUP function,
because that one was a little
bit easier to reason about,
we didn't have to do quite so
much thinking to get to that solution.
The fact that we had to
do anything in the LOOKUP
function should be a little
bit of a code smell to us.
We have all of that information there.
We know all of the symbols upfront,
that's not a thing that
needs to be computed later.
We know all of that, and
we're not saving any of that information,
we're not remembering
any of that information.
Just think about the fact that we call the
LOOKUP, you could call it multiple times
with the same symbol and
it would research every time.
It's not remembering any of its work, and
it's having to search potentially through
the whole list every single time.
So there are red flags that should
be going off all over the place,
just about those few for lines of code.
Now, this is not gonna break
anybody's performance bank.
This is not gonna be
the reason why your app fails,
something like this, but it's a paper cut.
In fact it's a couple dozen paper cuts and
we know that paper cuts add up, you've
heard of that adage the death of 1,000
paper cuts, we know that they add up.
And an algorithmist says,
if I can avoid the paper cuts, I should.
Can't always avoid them,
you're not gonna get a perfect solution.
But if I can look at something and
I've got a red flag that tells me there's
a paper cut there that I could avoid,
then we should think about it.
And in fact, here's another principle,
it could have been one of
the ones that I put on the slides earlier
at the beginning of the workshop,
in the intro to the workshop.
Here's another one of those takeaways.
If you know something up front,
remember it.
Don't throw it away and
recompute it later.
Don't be lazy like, I can always recompute
the answer to that question later.
If you've discovered it, remember it.
That's gonna be a key to developing
more optimal algorithms.
So when we load up the whole list of
elements here, we effectively know all
of the mappings between an element's
symbol name and the element entry,
but we're not remembering any of that
when we throw it all into an array.
So the first thing that we're
gonna do is remember that.
And you might recall that I discussed
this notion of creating indexes,
we're not gonna duplicate
our data structure,
our data structure is what
our data structure is.
That's how it comes from the JSON,
there's no reason for
us to construct a new data
structure in this case.
We're just gonna leave it that way.
But we are gonna construct an index
that allows us to look up something with
a single operation rather than having
to loop through the whole thing.
Constructing an index sounds
a whole lot more complicated and
sophisticated than it actually is.
So, go back to your co-workers
the next time you're at work and say,
I constructed an index and it increased
the optimization of my algorithm.
And they'll buy you lunch that day,
I promise.
Like cool, constructed an index to
optimize the algorithm, is pretty cool.
All we're gonna do is create another
object with some properties in it,
it's not that fancy, but
it is gonna get the job done.
All right, so first thing I wanna do is,
in addition to this element,
so I'm gonna create a variable
here that I'm gonna call symbols,
that's gonna be my index, it's gonna
be an object, it's gonna be my index.
So I'll go ahead and
initialize it to an empty object.
And this is the right
place to do that work,
I'm not gonna lazily discover these
indexes, I'm gonna upfront do the work.
Technically, you could lazily discover and
build the index as you go, but we're just
gonna build it all up front, especially
since it's only 118 elements, no big deal.
So what am I gonna do?
After I got that array,
I'm gonna go through the elements.
I do a for of them.
I occasionally get questions,
why don't you use for each or
why aren't you getting maps and
reduces here?
I'm not doing any maps and reduces cuz
this is not the functional programming
course and that would be more mental
context for me to throw at you.
Hey, now you got to go learn what
a MapReduce is, map or reduce or
filter whatever.
I don't used those unless I'm
doing functional programming, so
that's the answer that.
I use forEach because that's not,
it's neither good imperative coding nor
is it functional programming.
It's just the bastard child,
so I don't use forEach.
I'm gonna use For
Loop 9,000 times out of 10.
All right, so I got my for of loop here,
let me zoom back in because I had
zoomed out a little bit,
it's a little hard to read.
We got our for of loop here.
This is about as straightforward
as you could probably make it.
Remember we have symbols,
which is an object.
And we're just gonna store
properties in this symbol and
what property name do you
think we ought to use?
Anybody think what property?
Well, let me show you
what we're gonna assign.
We're gonna assign the element.
So what are we gonna put here for
the property name in the symbols object?
Anybody got an idea?
What's our task at hand?
What are we trying to do?
What is the LOOKUP function trying to do?
Yes.
>> I've got a couple of
different answers here.
>> Okay.
>> Symbol, element dot symbol, number.
>> Could use number but those are not
probably the best keys for us to use,
and I'll explain why.
Any others?
>> Lots of people saying symbol.
>> Okay, we are gonna wanna use the symbol
as the key but I just wanna make sure
everybody understands why, because that's
what the LOOKUP function is doing.
The LOOKUP function is mapping
from a symbol to an element.
So we're gonna create an index that
maps from the symbol, the string,
the lowercase one or two characters
which is unique to the element entry.
So that's what we're gonna do up here.
We're gonna say symbols of,
and the property name that
we're gonna use is
element.symbol.toLowerCase.
So, at the end of that, if we were to
log out that object, we're gonna have
an object with a whole bunch of properties
in it, 118 properties to be specific,
and each one of those is a string
property that has a value.
That is not a copy of the element entry,
it is simply a link,
a reference into our main data structure,
our array,
it's pointing at each one of
the entries in that array.
And now with this,
separate data structure I'll call it,
with this index having been created,
this code gets real easy.
Return symbols [LAUGH] of elementSymbol.
You see why this is better,
because we did all of that looping.
We did 118 iterations loop once up
front and remembered some information,
instead of re-looping for
every time we needed to do the lookup.
A little hard to show both those
snippets on the same screen, but
this is the important stuff.
We're doing that loop here,
this is effectively building an index.
I'm using some air quotes here,
that's not quite as sophisticated
as a database index might be.
But we're basically doing a helper
data structure that's gonna allow
us to index into the main data structure
in what we call an O of one operation.
That's a fancy way of saying
it's a single operation,
there's no built-in complexity in it,
at least at our level of understanding.
And our layer of abstraction
being JavaScript,
a property axis is a single operation.
Between JavaScript and C, or whatever
language layer you wanna think of that
the JavaScript engine is implemented in,
Rost or
whatever they build them in these days.
It may not be a single operation cuz they
may not be using a perfect HashMap as
the backing for their object.
So there's an assumption here that
we're making that only holds for
our layer of abstraction,
which is the JavaScript language.
And that assumption is that when
I do symbols of element symbol,
that's a single operation, a single unit
of operation, that's my unit of cost.
When I say O of one for
something like that, big O notation,
which we'll come back to
a bit later in the workshop.
But big O notation is a way that computer
scientists talk about the complexity
both the time processing complexity and
the memory complexity that
a particular algorithm takes, in best
case, average case, and worst case.
It's a way of describing what's the worst
possible outcome if this algorithm
was given the worst possible data.
What's its worst possible performance,
that's what we call this big O.
O of 1 is what we call
constant time because it's
a single operation, single unit.
We'll talk about all the other
ones that are above it, but
it doesn't get any better than constant
time other than no operation at all,
which I guess the best operation
is when you don't perform.
But if you got to perform an operation,
the best performance is O of 1.
Yes.
>> So
we just turned this from O of n to O of 1?
>> Yeah, exactly.
So actually,
it was a little bit worse than O of n,
because we're doing O of n for
each letter, or for each symbol, I guess.
So it was really kind
of like O of n times m,
m being the number of
symbols in our return value.
And we went from whatever n times m was,
which wasn't big, but
whatever it was, to 1.
So that's good.